README.md, before:

# Stream JSON Demo

You can see the [entire diff compared to a vanilla Rails 4.2.0 app](https://github.com/brianhempel/stream_json_demo/commit/6bd580ea9bf3b1d508bb1ce9e48834bf67e313df). The app is also running on Heroku at [http://stream-json-demo.herokuapp.com/random_numbers](http://stream-json-demo.herokuapp.com/random_numbers).

The app lazily generates a million random numbers and streams json to the client at the `/random_numbers` endpoint:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Encoding: deflate
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
```
```json
[
  {
    "index": 0,
    "time": "2015-03-12T16:24:59.381Z",
    "number": 96712233280936019238290948377812066522
  },
  {
    "index": 1,
    "time": "2015-03-12T16:24:59.381Z",
    "number": 322627977204921440486826283319053625299
  },
  {
    "index": 2,
    "time": "2015-03-12T16:24:59.381Z",
    "number": 174374410324316249417283007292339235935
  }
]
```

To stream the JSON, the app uses [`ActionController::Live`](http://tenderlovemaking.com/2012/07/30/is-it-live.html) which allows us to send data to the client in chunks with [HTTP chunked transfer encoding](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chunked_transfer_encoding). The action also demonstrates compressing such a response with [deflate](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_compression). With this setup, you could (theoretically) stream an infinitely large response to the client without running out of memory.

The relevant file is [`app/controllers/random_numbers_controller.rb`](https://github.com/brianhempel/stream_json_demo/blob/master/app/controllers/random_numbers_controller.rb):

```ruby
class RandomNumbersController < ApplicationController
  include ActionController::Live

  # Return a million random numbers.
  NUMBERS_COUNT = 1_000_000

  # Write out to client after every 2000 objects.
  FLUSH_EVERY = 2_000

  def index
    lazy_enum = random_number_objects_lazy.take(NUMBERS_COUNT)

    stream_json_array(lazy_enum)
  end

  private

  def random_numbers_lazy
    (0..Float::INFINITY).lazy.map { SecureRandom.random_number(2**128) }
  end

  def random_number_objects_lazy
    random_numbers_lazy.each_with_index.map do |random_number, i|
      {
        index:  i,
        time:   Time.current.xmlschema(3),
        number: random_number
      }
    end
  end

  # Note that chunked deflate seems not to work in curl. (Chunked plain JSON is fine.)
  # Chunked deflate works in Chrome.
  def stream_json_array(enum)
    headers["Content-Disposition"] = "attachment" # Download response to file. It's big.
    headers["Content-Type"]        = "application/json"
    headers["Content-Encoding"]    = "deflate"

    deflate = Zlib::Deflate.new

    buffer = "[\n  "
    enum.each_with_index do |object, i|
      buffer << ",\n  " unless i == 0
      buffer << JSON.pretty_generate(object, depth: 1)

      if i % FLUSH_EVERY == 0
        write(deflate, buffer)
        buffer = ""
      end
    end
    buffer << "\n]\n"

    write(deflate, buffer)
    write(deflate, nil) # Flush deflate.
    response.stream.close
  end

  def write(deflate, data)
    deflated = deflate.deflate(data)
    response.stream.write(deflated)
  end
end
```

## License

This Streaming JSON Demo is dedicated to the public domain by its author, Brian Hempel. No rights are reserved. No restrictions are placed on the use of this code example. That freedom also means, of course, that no warrenty of fitness is claimed; use code from here at your own risk.

This public domain dedication follows the the CC0 1.0 at https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/

Commit message:

Note that curl works, but you need the --compressed flag.

README.md, after:

# Stream JSON Demo

You can see the [entire diff compared to a vanilla Rails 4.2.0 app](https://github.com/brianhempel/stream_json_demo/commit/6bd580ea9bf3b1d508bb1ce9e48834bf67e313df). The app is also running on Heroku at [http://stream-json-demo.herokuapp.com/random_numbers](http://stream-json-demo.herokuapp.com/random_numbers).

You can curl this demo with:

```bash
$ curl --compressed http://stream-json-demo.herokuapp.com/random_numbers
```

The app lazily generates a million random numbers and streams json to the client at the `/random_numbers` endpoint:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Encoding: deflate
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
```
```json
[
  {
    "index": 0,
    "time": "2015-03-12T16:24:59.381Z",
    "number": 96712233280936019238290948377812066522
  },
  {
    "index": 1,
    "time": "2015-03-12T16:24:59.381Z",
    "number": 322627977204921440486826283319053625299
  },
  {
    "index": 2,
    "time": "2015-03-12T16:24:59.381Z",
    "number": 174374410324316249417283007292339235935
  }
]
```

To stream the JSON, the app uses [`ActionController::Live`](http://tenderlovemaking.com/2012/07/30/is-it-live.html) which allows us to send data to the client in chunks with [HTTP chunked transfer encoding](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chunked_transfer_encoding). The action also demonstrates compressing such a response with [deflate](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_compression). With this setup, you could (theoretically) stream an infinitely large response to the client without running out of memory.

The relevant file is [`app/controllers/random_numbers_controller.rb`](https://github.com/brianhempel/stream_json_demo/blob/master/app/controllers/random_numbers_controller.rb):

```ruby
class RandomNumbersController < ApplicationController
  include ActionController::Live

  # Return a million random numbers.
  NUMBERS_COUNT = 1_000_000

  # Write out to client after every 2000 objects.
  FLUSH_EVERY = 2_000

  def index
    lazy_enum = random_number_objects_lazy.take(NUMBERS_COUNT)

    stream_json_array(lazy_enum)
  end

  private

  def random_numbers_lazy
    (0..Float::INFINITY).lazy.map { SecureRandom.random_number(2**128) }
  end

  def random_number_objects_lazy
    random_numbers_lazy.each_with_index.map do |random_number, i|
      {
        index:  i,
        time:   Time.current.xmlschema(3),
        number: random_number
      }
    end
  end

  # Curl requires the --compressed flag for this response to load correctly.
  def stream_json_array(enum)
    headers["Content-Disposition"] = "attachment" # Download response to file. It's big.
    headers["Content-Type"]        = "application/json"
    headers["Content-Encoding"]    = "deflate"

    deflate = Zlib::Deflate.new

    buffer = "[\n  "
    enum.each_with_index do |object, i|
      buffer << ",\n  " unless i == 0
      buffer << JSON.pretty_generate(object, depth: 1)

      if i % FLUSH_EVERY == 0
        write(deflate, buffer)
        buffer = ""
      end
    end
    buffer << "\n]\n"

    write(deflate, buffer)
    write(deflate, nil) # Flush deflate.
    response.stream.close
  end

  def write(deflate, data)
    deflated = deflate.deflate(data)
    response.stream.write(deflated)
  end
end
```

## License

This Streaming JSON Demo is dedicated to the public domain by its author, Brian Hempel. No rights are reserved. No restrictions are placed on the use of this code example. That freedom also means, of course, that no warrenty of fitness is claimed; use code from here at your own risk.

This public domain dedication follows the the CC0 1.0 at https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
